https://matteroftrust.org/20-amazing-honey-bee-facts/
    Honey bees must gather nectar from two million flowers to make one pound of honey.
    One bee has to fly about 90,000 miles – three times around the globe – to make one pound of honey.
    The average bee will make only 1/12th of a teaspoon of honey in its lifetime.
    A honey bee visits 50 to 100 flowers during a collection trip.
    A honey bee can fly for up to six miles, and as fast as 15 miles per hour.
    The bee’s brain is oval in shape and about the size of a sesame seed, yet it has a remarkable capacity to learn and remember things. For example, it is able to make complex calculations on distance travelled and foraging efficiency.
    Honey bees communicate with one another by dancing.
    A colony of bees consists of 20,000-60,000 honey bees and one queen. Worker honey bees are female, live for about 6 weeks and do all the work.
    The queen bee can live up to 5 years and is the only bee that lays eggs. She is the busiest in the summer months, when the hive needs to be at its maximum strength, and lays up to 2500 eggs per day.
    Larger than the worker bees, the male honey bees (also called drones), have no stinger and do no work. All they do is mate.
    Honey has always been highly regarded as a medicine. It is thought to help with everything from sore throats and digestive disorders to skin problems and hay fever.
    Honey has antiseptic properties and was historically used as a dressing for wounds and a first aid treatment for burns and cuts.
    When a bee finds a good source of nectar it flies back to the hive and shows its friends where the nectar source is by doing a dance which positions the flower in relation to the sun and hive. This is known as the ‘waggle dance.’
    Honey’s ability to attract and retain moisture means that it has long been used as a beauty treatment. It was part of Cleopatra’s daily beauty ritual.
    Honey is incredibly healthy and includes enzymes, vitamins, minerals. It’s the only food that contains “pinocembrin”, an antioxidant associated with improved brain functioning.

    The natural fruit sugars in honey – fructose and glucose – are quickly digested by the body. This is why sportsmen and athletes use honey to give them a natural energy boost.
    Honey bees have been producing honey in the same way for 150 million years.
    The honey bee is the only insect that produces food eaten by man.
    Honey lasts an incredibly long time. An explorer who found a 2000 year old jar of honey in an Egyptian tomb said it tasted delicious!
    The bees’ buzz is the sound made by their wings which beat 11,400 times per minute.



https://www.ontariohoney.ca/kids-zone/bee-facts
Bees have five eyes - two compound eyes and three tiny ocelli eyes.
Only the Queen in the hive lays eggs. She communicates with her hive with her own special scent called pheromones. The queen will lay around 1,500 eggs per day.
Bees have two stomachs - one stomach for eating and the other special stomach is for storing nectar collected from flowers or water so that they can carry it back to their hive.

        There are three kinds of bees in a hive: Queen, Worker and Drone.
        The worker bees are all female and they do all the work for the hive. Workers perform the following tasks inside the hive as a House Bee: Cleaning, feeding the baby bees, feeding and taking care of the queen, packing pollen and nectar into cells, capping cells, building and repairing honeycombs, fanning to cool the hive and guarding the hive.
        Workers perform the following tasks outside the hive as Field Bees: Gathering nectar and pollen from flowers, collecting water and a sticky substance called propolis.
        The male bees in the hive are called drones. Their job in the hive is to find a queen to mate with. Male bees fly out and meet in special drone congregation areas where they hope to meet a queen. Male drone bees don't have a stinger.
        If a worker bee uses her stinger, she will die.
        Bees are classified as insects and they have six legs.
        Bees go through four stages of development: Egg, Larvae, Pupae and Adult Bee.
        The bees use their honeycomb cells to raise their babies in, and to store nectar, honey, pollen and water.
        Nectar is a sweet watery substance that the bees gather. After they process the nectar in their stomach they regurgitate it into the honeycomb cells. Then they fan with their wings to remove excess moisture. The final result is honey.
        Bees are the only insect in the world that make food that humans can eat.
        Honey has natural preservatives and bacteria can't grow in it.
        Honey was found in the tombs in Egypt and it was still edible! Bees have been here around 30 million years.
        A honeybee can fly 24 km in an hour at a speed of 15 mph. Its wings beat 200 times per second or 12,000 beats per minute.
        Bees have straw-like tongues called a proboscis so they can suck up liquids and also mandibles so they can chew.
        Bees carry pollen on their hind legs called a pollen basket. Pollen is a source of protein for the hive and is needed to feed to the baby bees to help them grow.
        A beehive in summer can have as many as 50,000 to 80,000 bees. A bee must collect nectar from about 2 million flowers to make 1 pound of honey. It requires 556 worker bees to gather a pound of honey. Bees fly more than once around the world to gather a pound of honey.
        The average worker bee makes about 1/12th of a teaspoon of honey in her lifetime.
        Bees have 2 pairs of wings. The wings have tiny teeth so they can lock together when the bee is flying.
        Bees communicate through chemical scents called pheromones and through special bee dances.
        Every 3rd mouthful of food is produced by bees pollinating crops. Flowering plants rely on bees for pollination so that they can produce fruit and seeds. Without bees pollinating these plants, there would not be very many fruits or vegetables to eat.
        A single beehive can make more than 100 pounds (45 kg) of extra honey. The beekeeper only harvests the extra honey made by the bees.
        The average life of a honey bee during the working season is about three to six weeks. There are five products that come from the hive: Honey, beeswax, pollen, propolis, and royal jelly.
        Beeswax is produced by the bees. Bees have special glands on their stomach that secrete the wax into little wax pockets on their stomach. The bee takes the wax and chews it with her mandibles and shapes it to make honeycomb.
        Propolis is a sticky substance that bees collect from the buds of trees. Bees use propolis to weatherproof their hive against drafts or in spots where rain might leak in.
        People have discovered the anti-bacterial properties of propolis for use in the medical field.
        Royal Jelly is a milky substance produced in a special gland in the worker bee's head. For her whole life the Queen is fed Royal Jelly by the workers.
        Although bears do like honey, they prefer to eat the bee larvae.
        Honey comes in different colours and flavours. The flower where the nectar was gathered from determines the flavour and colour of the honey.



https://www.beepods.com/101-fun-bee-facts-about-bees-and-beekeeping/
  The practice of beekeeping dates back at least 4,500 years
  Approximately one third of the food we eat is the result of honey bee pollination
  In their 6-8 week lifespan, a worker bee will fly the equivalent distance of 1 ½ times the circumference of the Earth.
  A productive queen can lay up to 2,500 eggs per day.
  Mead, which is made from fermented honey, is the world’s oldest fermented beverage.
  A single bee will produce only about 1/12 of a teaspoon of honey in its lifetime.
  Bees are attracted by caffeine.
  Bee on Coffee Flower Geraldine Wright

  This little lady is collecting nectar from a coffee flower. This image was taken by Geraldine Wright.
  The perfect hexagons that form honeycomb hold the most amount of honey with the smallest amount of material (wax).
  Honey bees are the only insect that produces food consumed by humans.
  During a single collection trip, a honey bee will visit anywhere from 50 to 100 flowers.
  Honey bees beat their wings 200 times per second, creating their trademark “buzz”.
  Though bees have jointed legs, they do not possess anything like a kneecap, and therefore do not have knees.
  There are three types of bees in every hive: a queen, worker bees, and drones.
  Only drones are male.
  In order to make a pound of honey, a hive of bees must fly 55,000 miles
  Honey bees don’t sleep. Instead, they spend their nights motionless, conserving energy for the next day’s activities.
  The honey bee is the official insect of Maine.
  Honey was found in King Tut’s tomb, and, because it never spoils, it was still good!
  Honey is the only known source of the antioxidant pinocembrin.
  On average, Americans consume 1.31 pounds of honey every year.
  A queen goes on what is called a “mating flight” where she leaves the hive and mates with anywhere from 5 to 45 different drones. She stores the sperm in her spermatheca, and has a lifetime supply, therefore only needing to take 1 mating flight in her lifetime.
  Honey bees are not born knowing how to make honey. Instead, they are taught in the hive by older bees.
  There are estimated to be nearly 212,000 beekeepers in the United States.
  Honey is 25% sweeter than table sugar.
  Honey is the only foodstuff that contains all of the necessary nutrients to sustain life.
  Bee venom is used as a treatment for several ailments, including arthritis and high blood pressure.
  Drones die after mating with a queen.
  A single hive can produce anywhere from 60 to 100 pounds of honey every year.
  The ancient Greeks and Romans viewed honey as a symbol of love, beauty, and fertility.
  There are people in Africa that keep elephants out of their fields by keeping honey bee hives around the fields in what is called a “bee fence.”
  bee fence maintained by beekeepers

  When elephants bump into the fence and disturb the nearby hives, the sound of bees causes the elephant to flee. This is a safe way to keep elephants safe from being hunted due to their ability to destroy crops.
  In Greek mythology, Apollo is credited as being the first beekeeper.
  Ancient peoples used to believe that bees were created from the carcasses of dead animals.
  Bees were a very popular animal to include in Napoleonic heraldry.
  Napoleanic Heraldry Coat of Arms Honey Bees

  The bee was a symbol of immorality and resurrection. It was chosen so as to link the new dynasty to the very origins of France.
   In ancient Egypt, people paid their taxes with honey.
  The ancient Greeks minted coins with bees on them.
  Beeswax is found in many of our everyday products, including furniture polishes, cosmetics, and medicines.
  The name ‘Melissa’ is derived from the Greek word for honey bee.
  Beekeeping is said to be the second oldest professions.
  Stone Age cave paintings have been found of ancient beekeepers. The oldest known art depicting honey gathering can be found in the Cave of the Spider near Valencia, Spain.
  Bee Cave Painting Valencia Spain

  An androgynous figure trusts his/her life to three thin vines or grass ropes to rob honey out of a hive high up on a cliff wall. Slung over the shoulder is a basket or gourd, ready to hold the sweet bounty about to harvested. Enormous bees surround the honey hunter, but none are depicted as stinging.
  Every species of bee performs their communication dances differently.
  The darker the honey, the greater amount of antioxidant properties it has.
  Bees can be trained to locate buried land mines.
  Ounce for ounce, honey bee venom is more deadly than cobra venom. Don’t worry, though – it takes 19 stings for every kilogram of a person’s body weight to be lethal.
  The first Anglo-Saxons drank beer made from water and honeycomb, with herbs for flavoring.
  The word “honeymoon” is derived from the ancient tradition of supplying a newlywed couple with a month’s supply of mead in order to ensure happiness and fertility.
  Humans sometimes use the Greater Honeyguide to find bee hives in the wild.
  Greater Honeyguide Bird

  The Greater Honeyguide is not actually a “guide.” It is actually a species of bird found across the continent of Africa. It is being studied by some researchers in partnership with the Audubon Society.
  While a worker bee will die after it stings, a queen can survive stinging.
  Worker bees have barbed stingers, while a queen has a smooth stinger, which she mostly uses to kill other queens.
  In the Hittite Empire (modern-day Turkey and Syria), a swarm’s value was equal to that of a sheep, and the penalty for bee thieving was a fine of 6 shekels of silver.
  The Magna Carta legalized the harvesting of wild honey by common folk.
  Forest Charter of 1225 Legalizes Honey Harvesting

  In 1217,
  King Henry III
  (r. 1216–72) issued a new version of Magna Carta, together with a new charter dealing with the royal forest. It was in a proclamation of February 1218 that the name ‘Magna Carta’ itself first appears, in order to distinguish the Great Charter from its shorter forest brother. On 11 February 1225, at the same time as issuing the final and definitive version of Magna Carta, Henry likewise issued a new version of the Charter of the Forest. Thereafter ‘the Charters’, as they were called, were always linked together.


  A hive will collect approximately 66 pounds of pollen per year.
  A worker bee can carry a load of nectar or pollen equal to 80% of her own body weight.
  Up until the mid-1700’s in England, it was common practice to kill all of the bees in a hive during honey collection.
  For every pound of honey produced, a hive must collect 10 pounds of pollen.
  In the United States, more than 300 different kinds of honey are produced every year. The variety in color and flavor is determined by the types of flowers from which the bees collect nectar.
  The European honey bee was brought over to North America by the Shakers. Because of this, Native Americans referred to honey bees as the “White Man’s Fly”.
  Honey bees did not spread to Alaska until 1927.
  During the American Revolution, George Washington said “It was the cackling geese that saved Rome, but it was the bees that saved America.” Read the full story here.
  Honey bees have 170 odorant receptors, and have a sense of smell 50 times more powerful than a dog.
  Every bee colony has its own distinct scent so that members can identify each other.
  A hive is perennial, meaning that it becomes inactive in the winter but “awakens” again in the spring. When individuals die, they are quickly replace – workers every 6-8 weeks, and the queen every 2-3 years. Because of this, a hive could technically be immortal!
  Bes have 2 stomachs – one for eating, and one for storing nectar.Honey Bee Anatomy Diagram Bee Fact
  Bees have existed for around 30 million years.
  Hives produce 5 distinct substances: honey, beeswax, propolis, pollen, and royal jelly.
  Newborn bees ask for food by sticking out their tongues at passing worker bees.
  While bears do enjoy honey, they prefer to eat bee larvae.
  Bees have long, straw-like tongues called a proboscis which they use to suck liquid nectar out of flowers.
  During the winter, some worker bees take on the job of “heater bees,” where they vibrate their bodies in order to keep the hive at the optimal temperature of 95ºF.
  Bees make honey by regurgitating digested nectar into honeycomb cells and then fanning it with their wings.
  Honeycomb cells have many uses other than storing honey. They are also used to store nectar, pollen, and water, as well as a nursery for larvae!
  Bees have 5 eyes – 3 simple eyes, and 2 compound eyes.
  Only female bees have stingers.
  The females do all of the work in the hive. The drones’ only job is to mate with a queen.
  Bees have 4 life stages: egg, larvae, pupae, and adult.
  Honey has antibacterial properties and can be used as a dressing for wounds.
  The top-bar hive originated in Africa.
  The queen bee (and only the queen) eats royal jelly for the duration of her life. This milky substance is produced in a special gland located in a worker bee’s head.
  Bees use propolis, a sticky substance gathered from the buds of trees, to fill in cracks and weatherproof their hives.
  Bees create wax in a special gland on their stomach, which they then chew to form honeycomb.
  Bees communicate in 2 ways: the waggle dance, and through the use of pheromones.
  Due to the rise in popularity of urban beekeeping, it is estimated that honey bees outnumber the residents of London 30-1 in the summer months.
  Ever wonder why a beekeeper’s suit is always white? It’s because bees react strongly to dark colors!
  The science of beekeeping is called “apiculture”.
  In 1984, honeybees on a space shuttle constructed a honeycomb in zero gravity.
  Bee Enclosure Module in space

  The Bee Enclosure Module (BEM) was an aluminum box designed to hold over 3400 worker bees and one queen for the student experiment “A Comparison of Honeycomb Structures Built by Apis millifera (SE82-17).” Investigators studied the effects of microgravity on the comb building activities of honeybees.


  Primitive hives were made from earthenware, mud, or hollow logs.
  Bees are sold by the pound.
  Swarming occurs when a colony has outgrown its current hive and is preparing to separate into 2 or more new, smaller hives.
  The top honey producing states are North Dakota, California, and South Dakota as of 2016.
  A single ounce of honey could fuel a honey bee’s flight all the way around the world.
  Honey bees are the only type of bee that dies after stinging.
  Honey bees usually travel about 3 miles away from the hive in search of nectar and pollen.
  Honey is composed of 80% sugars and 20% water.
  During the winter, worker bees will take short “cleansing flights” in order to defecate and remove debris from the hive.
  Some worker bees have the job of being an “undertaker bee” and are in charge of removing dead bees from the hive.
  Due to colony collapse disorder, bees have been dying off at a rate of approximately 30% per year.
  In Wisconsin, beekeepers can apply to have their honey certified as pure and use “Wisconsin certified honey” on their packaging.
  Bees hate human breath.
  Bees are being used to study dementia. When a bee takes on a new job usually done by a younger bee, its brain stops aging!
  Bees have their own “facial recognition software,” and can recognize human faces.
  Bee Laura Maigatter Facial Recognition

  A single honeybee brain has a million neurons compared with 100 billion in a human. But, researchers report, bees can recognize faces. From the
  New York Times.


  Bees use the sun as a compass, and on cloudy days, use polarized light to find their way.
  Honey made from rhododendron is poisonous, though rarely fatal
